>> THIS CAN'S BEEN KICKED DOWN
FOR 60 YEARS.
ENOUGH IS ENOUGH.
ISN'T IT TIME FOR US TO SEE OUR
GREAT CITIES BECOME GREAT.
>> MARK SHEELD AN
>> Suarez: MARK SHIELDS AND
DAVID BROOKS WEIGH IN ON THE
PRESIDENT'S REMARKS, DETROIT'S
TROUBLES AND MORE.
>> Brown: THE CANDIDATES FOR
GOVERNOR OF VIRGINIA FACE OFF IN
EIR THFIRST DEBATE TOMORROW.
WE UPDATE THE STATEHOUSE RACE TO
WATCH THIS YEAR.
>> Suarez: AND THE WAIT GOES ON
IN BRITAIN FOR THE ROYAL BABY.
HAVWEE THE STORY OF THE MEDIA
CAMPED OUT IN FRONT OF THE
HOSPITAL.
>> Brown: THAT'S ALL AHEAD ON
TONIGHT'S "NEWSHOUR."
>> Suarez: THE NATION'S FIRST
BLACK PRESIDENT CAME TO THE
WHITE HOUSE BRIEFING ROOM THIS
AFTERNOON, AND TOOK ON THE
TRAYVON MARTIN KILLING AND RACE
IN AMERICA IN HIGHLY PERSONAL
TERMS.
HE SPOKE A DAY BEFORE PROTESTS
ARE PLANNED NATIONWIDE OVER THE
ACQUITTAL OF GEORGE ZIMMERMAN IN
MARTIN'S DEATH.
>> YOU KNOW, WHEN TRAYVON MARTIN
WAS FIRST SHOT, I SAID THAT THIS
COULD HAVE BEEN MY SON.
ANOTHER WAY OF SAYING THAT IS
TRAYVON MARTIN COULD HAVE BEEN
ME 35 YEARS AGO.
AND WHEN YOU THINK ABOUT WHY, IN
THE AFRICAN-AMERICAN COMMUNITY
AT LEAST, THERE'S A LOT OF PAIN
AROUND WHAT HAPPENED HERE, I
THINK IT'S IMPORTANT TO
RECOGNIZE THAT THE AFRICAN-
AMERICAN COMMUNITY IS LOOKING AT
THIS ISSUE THROUGH A SET OF
EXPERIENCES AND A HISTORY
THAT... THAT DOESN'T GO AWAY.
THERE ARE VERY FEW AFRICAN-
AMERICAN MEN IN THIS COUNTRY WHO
HAVEN'T HAD THE EXPERIENCE OF
BEING FOLLOWED WHEN THEY WERE
SHOPPING IN A DEPARTMENT STORE.
THAT INCLUDES ME.
AND THERE ARE VERY FEW AFRICAN-
AMERICAN MEN WHO HAVEN'T HAD THE
EXPERIENCE OF WALKING ACROSS THE
STREET AND HEARING THE LOCKS
CLICK ON THE DOORS OF CARS.
THAT HAPPENS TO ME, AT LEAST
BEFORE I WAS A SENATOR.
THERE ARE VERY FEW AFRICAN-
AMERICANS WHO HAVEN'T HAD THE
EXPERIENCE OF GETTING ON AN
ELEVATOR AND A WOMAN CLUTCHING
HER PURSE NERVOUSLY AND HOLDING
HER BREATH UNTIL SHE HAD A
CHANCE TO GET OFF.
THAT HAPPENS OFTEN.
AND YOU KNOW, I DON'T WANT TO
EXAGGERATE THIS, BUT THOSE SETS
OF EXPERIENCES INFORM HOW THE
AFRICAN-AMERICAN COMMUNITY
INTERPRETS WHAT HAPPENED ONE
NIGHT IN FLORIDA.
AND IT'S INESCAPABLE FOR PEOPLE
TO BRING THOSE EXPERIENCES TO
BEAR.
THE AFRICAN-AMERICAN COMMUNITY
IS ALSO KNOWLEDGEABLE THAT THERE
IS A HISTORY OF RACIAL
DISPARITIES IN THE APPLICATION
OF OUR CRIMINAL LAWS, EVERYTHING
FROM THE DEATH PENALTY TO
ENFORCEMENT OF OUR DRUG LAWS.
AND THAT ENDS UP HAVING AN
IMPACT IN TERMS OF HOW PEOPLE
INTERPRET THE CASE.
NOW, THIS ISN'T TO SAY THAT THE
AFRICAN-AMERICAN COMMUNITY IS
NAIVE ABOUT THE FACT THAT
AFRICAN-AMERICAN YOUNG MEN ARE
DISPROPORTIONATELY INVOLVED IN
THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM,
THAT THEY ARE DISPROPORTIONATELY
BOTH VICTIMS AND PERPETRATORS OF
VIOLENCE.
IT'S NOT TO MAKE EXCUSES FOR
THAT FACT, ALTHOUGH BLACK FOLKS
DO INTERPRET THE REASONS FOR
THAT IN A HISTORICAL CONTEXT.
AND THE FACT THAT A LOT OF
AFRICAN-AMERICAN BOYS ARE
PAINTED WITH A BROAD BRUSH AND
THE EXCUSE IS GIVEN, WELL, THERE
ARE THESE STATISTICS OUT THERE
THAT SHOW THAT AFRICAN-AMERICAN
BOYS ARE MORE VIOLENT-- USING
THAT AS AN EXCUSE TO THEN SEE
SONS TREATED DIFFERENTLY CAUSES
PAIN.
NOW, THE QUESTION FOR ME AT
LEAST, AND I THINK, FOR A LOT OF
FOLKS IS, WHERE DO WE TAKE THIS?
HOW DO WE LEARN SOME LESSONS
FROM THIS AND MOVE IN A POSITIVE
DIRECTION?
ALONG THE SAME LINES, I THINK IT
WOULD BE USEFUL FOR US TO
EXAMINE SOME STATE AND LOCAL
LAWS TO SEE IF IT-- IF THEY ARE
DESIGNED IN SUCH A WAY THAT THEY
MAY ENCOURAGE THE KINDS OF
ALTERCATIONS AND CONFRONTATIONS
AND TRAGEDIES THAT WE SAW IN THE
FLORIDA CASE, RATHER THAN
DIFFUSE POTENTIAL ALTERCATIONS.
AND FOR THOSE WHO RESIST THAT
IDEA THAT WE SHOULD THINK ABOUT
SOMETHING LIKE THESE "STAND YOUR
GROUND" LAWS, I JUST ASK PEOPLE
TO CONSIDER IF TRAYVON MARTIN
WAS OF AGE AND ARMED, COULD HE
HAVE STOOD HIS GROUND ON THAT
SIDEWALK?
AND DO WE ACTUALLY THINK THAT HE
WOULD HAVE BEEN JUSTIFIED IN
SHOOTING MR. ZIMMERMAN, WHO HAD
FOLLOWED HIM IN A CAR, BECAUSE
HE FELT THREATENED?
AND IF THE ANSWER TO THAT
QUESTION IS AT LEAST AMBIGUOUS,
IT SEEMS TO ME THAT WE MIGHT
WANT TO EXAMINE THOSE KINDS OF
LAWS.
WE NEED TO SPEND SOME TIME IN
THINKING ABOUT HOW DO WE BOLSTER
AND REINFORCE OUR AFRICAN-
AMERICAN BOYS?
AND THIS IS SOMETHING THAT
MICHELLE AND I TALK A LOT ABOUT.
THERE ARE A LOT OF KIDS OUT
THERE WHO NEED HELP WHO ARE
GETTING A LOT OF NEGATIVE
REINFORCEMENT.
AND IS THERE MORE THAT WE CAN DO
TO GIVE THEM THE SENSE THAT
THEIR COUNTRY CARES ABOUT THEM
AND VALUES THEM AND IS WILLING
TO INVEST IN THEM?
I DON'T WANT US TO LOSE SIGHT
THAT THINGS ARE GETTING BETTER.
EACH SUCCESSIVE GENERATION SEEMS
TO BE MAKING PROGRESS IN
CHANGING ATTITUDES WHEN IT COMES
TO RACE.
IT DOESN'T MEAN THAT WE'RE IN A
POSTRACIAL SOCIETY.
IT DOESN'T MEAN THAT RACISM IS
ELIMINATED.
BUT YOU KNOW, WHEN I TALK TO
MALIA AND SASHA AND I LISTEN TO
THEIR FRIENDS AND I SEE THEM
INTERACT, THEY'RE BETTER THAN WE
ARE.
THEY'RE BETTER THAN WE WERE ON
THESE ISSUES.
AND THAT'S TRUE IN EVERY
COMMUNITY THAT I'VE VISITED ALL
ACROSS THE COUNTRY.
>> Brown: SOME PERSPECTIVE NOW
TO THE PRESIDENT'S COMMENTS,
INCLUDING FROM A PAIR OF GUESTS
WHO APPEARED ON OUR PROGRAM
EARLIER THIS WEEK AFTER THE
ZIMMERMAN VERDICT
THEY ARE CAROL SWAIN, A
PROFESSOR OF POLITICAL SCIENCE
AND LAW AT VANDERBILT LAW
SCHOOL.
JONATHAN TURLEY OF THE GEORGE
WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY LAW
SCHOOL.
AND THEY ARE JOINED TONIGHT BY
LEONARD PITTS JR., A PULITZER-
PRIZE WINNING COLUMNIST FOR THE
"MIAMI HERALD."
AND PRESIDENTIAL HISTORIAN
MICHAEL BESCHLOSS.
WELCOME TO EVERYBODY.
LEONARD PITTS WHY DON'T YOU
START IT OFF.
GENERALLY WHAT IS YOUR REACTION
TO WHAT THE PRESIDENT SAID?
>> MY GENERAL REACONTI IS GLORY
HALLELUJAH AND THANK GOODNESS
WHEN HE ALREADY SAID IT.
THERE IS NO POLITICAL UPSIDE.
BUT MORALLY AND SOCIALLY, I
BELIEVE AND I BELIEVE HE CAME TO
THE CONCLUSION THAT AS THE
NATION'S FIRST AFRICAN AMERICAN
PRESIDENT THERE IS NO WAY THAT
HE COULD STAND ON THE SIDELINES
ON THIS.
HE HAD TO, TO SPEAK TO THESE
ISSUES AND HE HAD TO CALL THE
NATION TO ACCOUNT, NOT SO MUCH
IN TERMS OF WHAT HAPPENED
LEGALLY, IN THAT COURTROOM IN
FLORIDA, BUT IN TERMS OF THE
MORAL IMPLICATIONS OF IT.
IN TERMS OF THIS IDEA THAT SEEMS
TO BE BANDIED ABOUT THAT SOMEHOW
IT'S TRAYVON MARTIN'S INNOCENCE
OR GUILT THAT IS IN QUESTION, OR
THAT MR. ZIMMERMAN HAD EVERY
RIGHT TO TALK STRM BECAUSE OF
PERCEIVED DANGER BECAUSE OF THE
COLOR OF HIS SKIN.
THAT NEEDS TO BE CALLED INTO
ACCOUNT AND I THINK THE
PRESIDENT DID A PRETTY GOOD JOB
OF DOING SO.
>>Brown: CAROL SWAIN, WHAT DID
YOU THINK?
>> THERE WERE PARTS OF HIS
SPEECH THAT I APPRECIATED.
I APPRECIATED THE FACT THAT HE
WOULD ACTUALLY HAVE THE
CONVERSATION.
BUT AS FAR AS THE CONTENT, WHEN
HE TALKS ABOUT RACIAL PROFILING,
YES, BLACK MEN ARE FOLLOWED.
AND THEY ARE LOOKED AT MORE
SUSPICIOUSLY.
AND I SPEAK AS A MOTHER THAT'S
RAISED TWO BLACK MALES.
THEY CERTAINLY WERE FOLLOWED.
BUT AT THE SAME TIME, WHAT THE
PRESIDENT DID NOT STRESS IS THE
YOUTH THAT CAUSES SO MANY PEOPLE
DISCOMFORT.
AND NOT JUST WHITE PEOPLE.
BUT BLACK PEOPLE, AS WELL.
WE MAY REMEMBER A FEW YEARS AGO,
WHEN JESSE JACKSON TALKED ABOUT
BEING IN BLACK NEIGHBORHOODS AND
HEARING FOOTSTEPS BEHIND HIM AND
LOOKING OVER AND LOOKING BEHIND
HIMSELF AND SEEING A WHITE
PERSON AND HAVING MORE COMFORT.
SO I THINK THE PRESIDENTIAL HAS
NOT DEALT ADEQUATELY WITH THE
FACT THAT THERE IS A PROBLEM IN
THE BLACK COMMUNITY.
THE BLACK COMMUNITY HAS TO TAKE
SOME RESPONSIBILITY FOR
ADDRESSING THOSE PROBLEMS.
I THINK IT'S TIME TO HAVE A
NATIONAL CONVERSATION ON RACE
THAT'S NOT POLITICALLY CORRECT,
THAT ALLOWS ALL OF US, WHITE,
BLACK, BROWN, RED, TO GET OFF
OUR CHEST THE THINGS THAT ARE
AFFECTING OUR RACIAL
CONVERSATION.
WE WILL NEVER MOVE AHEAD UNTIL
BLACKS GIRN TO TAKE
RESPONSIBILITY AND WHITES BEGIN
TO EXPRESS THEIR CONCERNS.
>>Brown: JONATHAN TURLEY, YOU
TALKED ON MONDAY ABOUT THE
PERCEPTION OF THE AMERICAN
JUSTICE SYSTEM THE STAND YOUR
GROUND.
WHAT DO YOU THINK ABOUT HEARING
FROM THE PRESIDENT?
>> I THINK THERE IS MUCH IN HIS
REMARKS THAT ARE QUITE TOUCHING,
QUITE MOVING.
THE ONE THING THE PRESIDENT
CAN'T SAY IS I REALLY CAN'T DO
ANYTHING ABOUT.
BUT IN REALITY THAT IS THE CASE.
THAT IS, YOU DON'T -- YOU KNOW
NEIGHBORS HAVE DIALOGUES.
YOU DON'T HAVE DIALOGUES THROUGH
PLEBISCITES OR POLITICIANS.
THE FACT IS, WE ALL KNOW THAT WE
HAVE IMPROVED BUT THAT
IMPME TO -- IT IS TO
MOVE FORWARD, OCCUR ON A
MICRO-LEVEL AND PART OF THE
PROBLEM YOU SEE HERE IS HOW
DANGEROUS CASES ARE TO BE
NARRATIVES FOR A NATIONAL
DEBATE.
WE'RE REALLY HAVE TWO DIFFERENT
DEBATES.
YOU HAVE ONE COMMUNITY THAT HAS
A DUE PROCESS NARRATIVE AND ONE
COMMUNITY THAT HAS A RACE
NARRATIVE.
AND THEY'RE TALKING PAST EACH
OTHER.
WE'RE NOT SPEAKING OF THE SAME
ISSUES.
>>Brown: AND YET THE PRESIDENT
MICHAEL STEPPED IN, SAID HE HAD
TO COME BACK AT THE END OF THE
WAKE AND SAY SOMETHING.
HOW UNUSUAL, WHAT STRUCK YOU
ABOUT THIS?
>> THE FIRST THING UNUSUAL ABOUT
IT, HISTORIANS ALWAYS SPEAK
ABOUT A PRESIDENT AND SAY HOW
DIFFERENT IT IS.
THE DIFFERENCE IS YOU HAD AN
AFRICAN AMERICAN PRESIDENT TALK
ABOUT THIS ISSUE RATHER THAN
JOHN KENNEDY, ARE CAMPAIGNING 50
YEARS AGO FOR A CIVIL RIGHTS
BILL.
WHO AMONG US WOULD LIKE TO HAVE
THE COLOR OF HIS SKIN CHANGED
AND LIVE THE LIFE THAT AFRICAN
AMERICANS WERE, US, PRESUMABLY,
HOW DIFFERENT THE AUDIENCE WERE.
AFTER THE DEATH OF MARTIN LUTHER
KING, CALLED ON BLACK AMERICANS
AND ESSENTIALLY SAID, DON'T
RESPOND WITH VIOLENCE.
THEY QUITE RIGHTLY SAID YOU
DON'T HAVE THE STANDING TO SAY
THAT TO US.
IN CONTRAST PRESIDENT OBAMA SAID
THE WAY TO DISHONOR TRAYVON
MARTIN'S LEGACY WOULD BE TO
RESPOND WITH VIOLENCE.
ALSO WITH POLITICALLY MOTIVATES,
IN HAS BEEN A RISING EXPECTATION
IN SOME AREAS OF THE COUNTRY
THAT THIS VERDICT MAY BE
OVERWHELMED BY FEDERAL ACTION.
IT WAS PROBABLY EVEN MORE AFTER
ATTORNEY GENERAL HOLDER SAID THE
OTHER DAY, SORT OF A DIAMOND IN
THE CHANDELIER IN THE SPEECH
WAS, DON'T EXPECT THAT TO
HAPPEN.
>>Brown: LEONARD PITTS, REACT TO
WHAT YOU HEAR AROUND THE TABLE
BUT ALSO THE CONTINUING
CONVERSATION THAT THE PRESIDENT
WAS TALKING ABOUT, NOT NATIONAL
CONVERSATION BUT SOME KIND OF
CONVERSATION AMONG PEOPLE IN
THEIR COMMUNITIES.
>> WELL REACTING TO WHAT I JUST
HEARD, I THINK IT'S RATHER I
FACILE TO SAY THESE BLACK KIDS
ARE ESSENTIALLY RUB I RIOT AND
WE NEED TO TALK ABOUT THAT.
THE FACT OF THE MATTER IS,
ACCORDING TO EVERY CENTER I HAVE
SEEN, AFRICAN AMERICANS ARE NOT
NECESSARILY MORE CRIMINAL THAN
THEIR COUNTERPARTS THEY ARE
FORWARDED INTO THE CRIMINAL
JUSTICE SYSTEM MORE THAN THEIR
COUNTERPARTS.
WHEN YOU HAVE A SITUATION WHERE
AFRICAN AMERICANS ACCOUNT FOR
15% OF THE COUNTRY'S CRIME BUT
IN SOME JURISDICTIONS THEY
ACCOUNT FOR 70 OR 80 OR 90% OF
THE CRIMINALS DOING DRUG TIME, I
THINK THERE ARE INSTANCES WHERE
AFRICAN AMERICANS DO NEED TO
TAKE RESPONSIBILITY BUT I THINK
THAT IT IS ENTIRELY POSSIBLE AND
AS A MATTER OF FACT, VERY
FREQUENTLY DONE THAT WE OVERSELL
THAT.
>>Brown: ALL RIGHT.
IN TERMS OF A CONVERSATION
THAT NEEDS TO HAPPEN IN THIS
COUNTRY, I THINK THAT WE AS
AFRICAN AMERICANS, NEED TO HAVE
A CONVERSATION ABOUT ORGANIZING
AND BECOMING FRANKLY MORE
ACTIVIST THAN WE HAVE IN THE
RECENT YEARS.
I THINK OUR WHITE SISTERS AND
BROTHERS FRANKLY NEED TO TAKE A
LITTLE BIT MORE OWNERSHIP OF
UNDERSTANDING WHAT'S GOING ON IN
THESE COMMUNITIES.
>>Brown: I'M SORRY, GO AHEAD.
I'M SORRY.
NEED TO TAKE MORE OWNERSHIP FOR
KNOWING WHAT'S GOING ON IN
AFRICAN AMERICAN COMMUNITIES AS
OPPOSED TO SORT OF RELYING ON
THESE ABSTRACTS AND STEREOTYPES
AND MEDIA SET PERCEPTIONS THAT
SEEM TO BE THE ROOT OF SO MUCH
OF THE PROBLEM AND DISCONNECT.
>>Brown: LET ME BRING CAROL
SWAIN IN TO RESPOND TO THAT.
>> FIRST I WANT TO RESPOND TO
THE DISPARITIES OF DRUG
INCARCERATION.
THAT GOES TO THE PENALTIES THAT
ARE DIFFERENT FOR CRACK COCAINE
AND REGULAR COCAINE.
TOUGHER LAWS THAT AFFECTED
BLACKS MORE THAN WHITES,
ORIGINALLY IT WAS THE
CONGRESSIONAL BLACK CAUCUS THAT
PUSHED FOR THOSE LAWS, BECAUSE
OF THE DEVASTATING EFFECT CRACK
COCAINE WAS HAVING IN THE BLACK
COMMUNITIES.
THEN IN LATER YEARS IT BECAME
ALL ABOUT RACE.
THAT BLACKS WERE BEING TREATED
DIFFERENTLY BECAUSE THEY USE
CRACK BUT IT WAS THE BLACK
LEADERS THAT PUSHED FOR THOSE
LAWS.
AND I'M SURE THAT PRESIDENT
OBAMA WOULD BE FAMILIAR WITH
THAT HISTORY.
AND THE -- THE CONDITIONS IN THE
BLACK COMMUNITY, WE ARE NOT
ADDRESSING THOSE CONDITIONS AND
I BELIEVE THAT THIS WHOLE -- THE
RALLIES THE WHOLE
POLITICALIZATION OF THE TRAYVON
MARTIN DEATH IS A WAY TO TAKE
PEOPLE'S MINDS OFF THE PROBLEMS
THAT ARE NOT BEING ADDRESSED
CERTAINLY BY THE DEMOCRATS.
AND I SEE ACTIVIST LEADERS I
THINK THEY ARE STIRRING THE POT.
THEY ARE NOT TELLING THE WHOLE
STORY.
AND THEY HAVE SET UP A SITUATION
WHERE I THINK THAT THERE IS
LIKELY TO BE MORE BALANCE TO
ENSUE.
>>Brown: ALL RIGHT.
AND IN THE BLACK COMMUNITY
AMONG TEENAGERS, THERE'S BEEN A
LOT OF MOB VIOLENCE, SINCE THE
PRESIDENT'S BEEN ELECTED, WHERE
GANGS OF BLACK TEENAGERS ATTACK
A ALONE PERSON, USUALLY A WHITE
PERSON AND IT DOESN'T GET THE
NEWS MEDIA COVERAGE THAT IT
SHOULD.
>>Brown: ALL RIGHT.
WE OUGHT TO TALK ABOUT IT.
I THINK THERE'S BEEN A WORSENING
OF THAT.
>>Brown: JONATHAN TURLEY, DID
YOU HEAR ANYTHING THAT THE
PRESIDENT SAID ABOUT THE LEGAL
CASE OR WHAT HAPPENS NEXT?
>> I THINK THAT'S WHERE CRITICS
WILL NOT BE SATISFIED ABOUT THE
REMARKS.
BECAUSE HE REALLY DIDN'T ADDRESS
THIS DUE PROCESS NARRATIVE.
WHEN HE SAID LOOK IT COULD HAVE
COME OUT DIFFERENTLY IF THE
RACES WERE SWITCHED.
FOR THE DUE PROCESS TERMINATION
THE RESULT WAS REALLY
PREORDAINED BY THE LACK OF
EVIDENCE OR AT LEAST HOW THE
PROSECUTORS PRESENTED IT AND IT
WOULDN'T HAVE TURNED OUT
DIFFERENTLY FROM THAT
PERSPECTIVE.
BUT ALSO TALKING ABOUT STAND
YOUR GROUND LAWS.
THAT'S COME UP A LOT.
IT CAME UP WITH THE PRESIDENT
BUT IT HAD NOTHING TO DO WITH
THE TRIAL.
THEY DIDN'T USE THIS LAW.
THIS WAS A STRAIGHT CONVENTIONAL
SELF-DEFENSE CASE.
ONCE AGAIN YOU'RE SORT OF LEFT
WITH -- WE'RE NOT TALKING ABOUT
THE SAME SUBJECTS AND WE'RE
CERTAINLY NOT TALKING FROM THE
SAME PERSPECTIVES.
>>Brown: AND MICHAEL YOU'RE
TALKING ABOUT THE PRESIDENT SORT
OF USING THE PULLEY PULPIT HERE
THAT HE HAS.
WHERE DOES IT GO FROM HERE?
HARD TO SAY.
>> I THINK PROBABLY ONE OF THE
TRUEST THINGS HE SAID WAS IT'S
NOT TOO SMART FOR POLITICIANS TO
START NATIONAL CONVERSATIONS
BECAUSE THEY ARE POLITICAL AND
THEY ARE OFTENTIMES TRIVIAL.
WHAT HAPPENS IS AN EVENT AND
JUST AS YOU SAID OFTENTIMES AN
EVENT STARTS A CONVERSATION ON A
SUBJECT THAT IS LARGER THAN THE
ONE THE ENT CONCERNED.
AND THE LATE 1970s SPUTNIK
HAPPENED AND DID WE DO ENOUGH TO
EDUCATE OUR CHILDREN IN SCIENCE
AND MATH?
THAT'S NOT THE REASON SPUTNIK
HAPPENED BUT IT STARTED A
DIALOGUE AND PERHAPS THIS ONE
CAN HERE AS WELL.
>> JONATHAN TURLEY, OTHERS,
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
BL
>> Suarez: STILL TO COME ON THE
"NEWSHOUR": REACTION TO THE
BANKRUPTCY FILING IN DETROIT;
SHIELDS AND BROOKS; THE
GOVERNOR'S CONTEST IN VIRGINIA
AND BRITAIN'S WAIT FOR THE ROYAL
BABY.
BUT FIRST, THE OTHER NEWS OF THE
DAY.
HERE'S KWAME HOLMAN.
>> Holman: RUSSIAN OPPOSITION
LEADER ALEXEI NAVALNY WAS
RELEASED TODAY, AFTER THOUSANDS
OF DEMONSTRATORS PROTESTED HIS
FIVE-YEAR PRISON SENTENCE.
HE WAS SET FREE BY A COURT IN
KIROV THAT HAD CONVICTED HIM OF
EMBEZZLING HALF A MILLION
DOLLARS WORTH OF TIMBER.
AFTERWARD, NAVALNY SAID HE
HASN'T DECIDED IF HE'S STILL
RUNNING FOR MAYOR OF MOSCOW.
>> ( translated ): I AM NOT
THEIR PET KITTEN OR THEIR PET
PUPPY WHOM THEY CAN FIRST THROW
OUT OF THE ELECTIONS AND SAY
"YOU WILL NOT TAKE PART" AND
THEN DECIDE, "OKAY, LET HIM IN
FOR A MONTH TO TAKE PART IN THE
ELECTIONS."
I WILL NOW RETURN TO MOSCOW AND
WE WILL DISCUSS EVERYTHING WITH
MY ELECTORAL CAMPAIGN STAFF.
>> Holman: NAVALNY IS TO REMAIN
FREE PENDING HIS APPEAL.
A FORMER C.I.A. STATION CHIEF
CONVICTED IN ITALY OF ABDUCTING
A TERROR SUSPECT IS OR SOON WILL
BE BACK TO THE UNITED STATES.
A STATE DEPARTMENT SPOKESWOMAN
ANNOUNCED IT TODAY.
ROBERT SELDON LADY WAS DETAINED
IN PANAMA THIS WEEK, AT ITALY'S
REQUEST.
HE'D BEEN CONVICTED IN ABSENTIA
IN THE KIDNAPPING OF AN EGYPTIAN
CLERIC.
A SUICIDE BOMBER KILLED AT LEAST
22 PEOPLE IN CENTRAL IRAQ TODAY.
AT LEAST 50 PEOPLE WERE WOUNDED.
IT HAPPENED AT A SUNNI MOSQUE IN
DIYALA PROVINCE, DURING FRIDAY
PRAYERS.
POLICE FOUND A SECOND BOMB
NEARBY.
AN ESTIMATED 200 IRAQIS HAVE
DIED IN SECTARI VIOANLENCE SINCE
THE ISLAMIC HOLY MONTH OF
RAMADAN BEGAN LAST WEEK.
IN EGYPT, THOUSANDS OF
PROTESTERS WERE BACK IN THE
STREETS AFTER FRIDAY PRAYERS,
IN A SHOW OF SUPPORT FOR OUSTED
PRESIDENT MOHAMMED MORSI.
THEY WAVED EGYPTIAN FLAGS AND
MARCHED THROUGH CAIRO, DEMANDING
MORSI'S REINSTATEMENT.
HELICOPTERS FLOWN BY THE
MILITARY THAT PUSHED MORSI OUT
FLEW ABOVE TAHRIR SQUARE,
BRANDISHING FLAGS, AS WELL.
THE U.S. HOUSE VOTED TODAY TO
REDUCE THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT'S
POWER TO SET SCHOOL STANDARDS.
REPUBLICANS PUSHED THROUGH A
BILL THAT WOULD ELIMINATE
TESTING AND TEACHER EVALUATION
FIRST IMPOSED UNDER THE
"NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND LAW".
MINNESOTA CONGRESSMAN JOHN KLINE
SAID STATE AND LOCAL GOVERNMENTS
SHOULD HAVE THE FINAL SAY OVER
HOW TO IMPROVE THEIR SCHOOLS.
>> IT IS TIME FOR THE CONGRESS--
THE HOUSE AND THE SENATE-- TO
STEP UP AND DO ITS JOB AND WRITE
NEW LAW AND GET THE
ADMINISTRATION OUT OF THE
BUSINESS OF WRITING EDUCATION
POLICY.
I WOULD HOPE THAT REPUBLICANS
AND DEMOCRATS WOULD RECOGNIZE
THAT IT IS NOT THE ROLE OF THE
ADMINISTRATION.
>> Holman: DEMOCRATS AGREED ON
THE NEED FOR EDUCATION REFORM.
BUT CALIFORNIA'S GEORGE MILLER
AND OTHERS ARGUED THAT THE HOUSE
BILL SIMPLY GUTS FEDERAL FUNDING
FOR EDUCATION.
>> WE NEED EVERY ONE OF THOSE
STUDENTS TO BE ABLE TO BE
PRODUCTIVE AND SUCCESSFUL AND
ACHIEVING.
BUT THAT'S NOT WHAT THE
REPUBLICAN BILL PROMISES.
IT GRINDS DOWN THE FUNDING
AVAILABLE TO THESE SCHOOL
DISTRICTS FOR POOR AND MINORITY
CHILDREN, FOR STUDENTS WITH
DISABILITIES.
>> Holman: THE HOUSE BILL IS
EXPECTED TO HIT A DEAD END IN
THE DEMOCRATIC-LED SENATE.
BILLIONAIRE HEDGE FUND MANAGER
STEPHEN A. COHEN NOW FACES CIVIL
CHARGES IN CONNECTION WITH A
MAJOR INSIDER-TRADING CASE.
THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION CHARGED HIM TODAY
WITH FAILING TO PREVENT THE
ILLEGAL PRACTICE AT HIS FIRM,
S.A.C. CAPITAL ADVISORS.
THE COMPANY SAID THE ACCUSATIONS
HAVE NO MERIT.
WALL STREET ENDED THE WEEK ON A
SUBDUED NOTE.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST MORE THAN FOUR POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 15,543.
THE NASDAQ FELL 23 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 3,587.
FOR THE WEEK, THE DOW GAINED
HALA PEF RCENT.
THE NASDAQ FELL 0.3%.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE DAY'S
MAJOR STORIES.
NOW, BACK TO RAY.
>> Suarez: AND WE TURN TO THE
MANY QUESTIONS ABOUT THE
POTENTIAL CONSEQUENCES OF HAVING
THE CITY OF DETROIT FILE FOR
BANKRUPTCY.
>> WE HAVE TO DO THIS IN SOME
FASHION, AND BANKRUPTCY WILL LET
US TO ACHIEVE THAT IN SOME WAY.
>> Suarez: DETROIT'S EMERGENCY
FINANCIAL MANAGER KEVYN ORR WAS
OUT TODAY, DEFENDING THE
DECISION TO FILE THE LARGEST
MUNICIPAL BANKRUPTCY IN AMERICAN
HISTORY.
WITH THE CITY FACING UP TO $20
BILLION IN LONG-TERM DEBT, ORR
AND MAYOR DAVE BING TOOK THE
PLUNGE ON YESTERDAY.
>> AS TOUGH AS THIS IS, I REALLY
DIDN'T WANT TO GO IN THIS
DIRECTION.
BUT NOW THAT WE ARE HERE, WE
HAVE TO MAKE THE BEST OF IT.
THIS IS VERY DIFFICULT FOR ALL
OF US, BUT IF IT'S GOING TO MAKE
THE CITIZENS BETTER OFF, THEN
THIS IS A NEW START FOR US.
>> Suarez: IT'S ALL A FAR CRY
FROM DETROIT'S STORIED DAYS AS
THE MOTOR CITY.
IN THE 1950s, THE POPULATION
TOPPED 1.8 MILLION, WITH WORKERS
LURED BY HIGH-PAYING AUTO JOBS.
BUT BY THE 1960s, THE BIG THREE-
- G.M., FORD AND CHRYSLER--
BEGAN SHIFTING FACTORIES TO
LOWER-COST CITIES AND FACED
GROWING COMPETITION FROM JAPAN.
THE 1967 RIOTS SENT MIDDLE CLASS
FAMILIES RUSHING FOR THE EXITS
TO EVER-GROWING SUBURBS WITH
BETTER SCHOOLS AND LOWER CRIME
RATES.
THEY LEFT A CITY WHERE PROPERTY
VALUES AND TAX REVENUE STEADILY
DECLINED, AS CRIME, DECAY AND
SERVICES WORSENED.
BY 2010, DETROIT'S POPULATION
STOOD AT JUST OVER 700,000.
ON THURSDAY, KEVYN ORR SAID IT'S
LONG PAST TIME TO DO SOMETHING.
>> THERE ARE 700,000 CITIZENS
WHO DON'T DESERVE A 55 MINUTE
RESPONSE TIME, WHO DON'T DESERVE
ENDEMIC BLIGHT AND CRIME.
NO HOPE AND FUTURE, JUST
CONTINUED DEBT OVER DEBT AND
DEBT AND BORROWING.
>> Suarez: THE CITY'S FISCAL
WOES HAVE BEEN COMPOUNDED BY
CORRUPTION RUN RAMPANT UNDER
MAYOR KWAME KILPATRICK.
HE WAS CONVICTED LAST MARCH 11
OF RACKETEERING AND OTHER
FEDERAL CHARGES.
TWO DAYS LATER, MICHIGAN
GOVERNOR RICK SNYDER DECLARED AN
EMERGENCY AND APPOINTED ORR.
THE FINANCIAL MANAGER INSISTED
YESTERDAY THAT THE CITY BENT
OVER BACKWARD TO WORK WITH
CREDITORS, BUT COULD NOT
REACH AGREEMENT.
STILL, THE BANKRUPTCY FILING
LEFT RESIDENTS FRUSTRATED.
>> BIG OLD DETROIT CAN'T EVEN
HANDLE THEY OWN BUSINESS?
THAT'S SAD.
>> THEY'VE HAD ENOUGH TIME TO
STRAIGHTEN IT OUT, SO I GUESS AT
YOURSELF, SOMEONE ELSE WILL.
>> Suarez: MAJOR CREDITORS,
PENSION BOARDS AND LABOR UNIONS
ALSO GRUMBLED.
IN WASHINGTON, STEVE KREISBERG
OF THE AMERICAN FEDERATION OF
STATE, COUNTY AND MUNICIPAL
EMPLOYEES PUT IT THIS WAY.
>> THE LOSS OF PENSION COULD BE
EXTREMELY DEVASTATING FOR A
NUMBER OF CITY WORKERS IN
DETROIT.
IT'S SIMPLY A MATTER OF WHAT
THEY'VE BEEN COUNTING ON, IT'S
THEIR NESTEGGS.
IT'S REALLY THEIR LIFE SAVINGS.
>> Suarez: NOW, AS THE CITY
WAITS, A PROTRACTED PROCESS
BEGINS IN FEDERAL BANKRUPTCY
COURT.
THERE IS NO IMMEDIATE ESTIMATE
ON HOW LONG IT WILL LAST.
NEST AND WE'RE JOINED BY
EMERGENCY MANAGER ORR AND
GOVERNOR SNYDER.
GOVERNOR YOU SAID TODAY THIS IS
A DEBT THAT CAN BE PAID AND WILL
BE PAID.
SO WHAT CAN BOND HOLDERS AND
CREDITORS EXPECT?
>> PART OF THIS PROCESS IS TO
ADDRESS THE $18 BILLION IN
LIABILITIES.
DETROIT IS BROKE.
AND SO ONE OF THE BENEFITS OF
BANKRUPTCY AND THIS WAS A VERY
DIFFICULT DECISION TO GET TO AND
WE DID EVERYTHING POSSIBLE TO
AVOID IT BUT WE'RE HERE NOW.
SO THIS GIVES THE CITY AN
OPPORTUNITY TO PRESENT A PLAN TO
SAY HOW TO ADJUST ITS DEBTS, TO
SAY LET'S TREAT PEOPLE FAIRLY IN
TERMS OF THEIR CREDITORS, THE
SECOND PIECE IS, VERY IMPORTANT
THAT I WANT TO MENTION IS IT
GIVES AN OPPORTUNITY TO PRESENT
A PLAN FOR BETTER SERVICES TO
THE CITIZENS OF DETROIT.
AND THAT'S ABSOLUTELY NEEDED.
RESPONSE TIMES FOR POLICE IN
DETROIT ARE 58 MINUTES.
SO IN ADDITION TO JUST THE
LIABILITY QUESTION WHICH IS A
BIG ISSUE ON ITS OWN WE NEED TO
GET BETTER SERVICES TO CITIZENS
OF DETROIT.
THAT'S WHO I WORK FOR PLUS THE 9
MILLION PEOPLE OF MICHIGAN.
THEY DESERVE A BETTER ANSWER.
>>Suarez: MR. ORR, YOUR LONG
TERM DEBT IS INHE T BILLIONS AND
YOU HAVE BEEN BORROWING MONEY TO
MEET THE DEFICIT.
WHOSE THIS INEVITABLE?
>> I DON'T KNOW IF THIS WAS
INEVITABLE BUT IT CERTAINLY WAS
A DULL DECISION AND APPARENT.
WHEN YOU HAVE A $360 MILLION
CREDIT BUDGET, SOMETHING HAD TO
BE DONE.
THIS IS 60 YEARS OF DEFERRED
MAINTENANCE THAT'S BEEN COMING
OUR WAY AND WE HAVE TO MAKE A
JUDGMENT CALL.
>>Suarez: YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT
SEVERE LOSSES TO THOSE THAT THE
CITY OWES MONEY.
COULD THIS HAVE BEEN LESS PAIN
TO THE STAKEHOLDERS IF IT HAD
BEEN DONE EARLIER?
>> CERTAINLY WE HAVE TRIED TO
STAY AWAY FROM RETROSPECK
ADVERTISES AND WONDERING.
BUT YOU CAN'T DELAY THESE KINDS
OF DECISIONS AND THIS KIND OF
OBLIGATION AND NOT EXPECT IT TO
GET WORSE.
IT EXACERBATES AND GETS WORSE
AND WORSE AND WORSE.
FRANKLY THAT IS MY REQUEST TO
THE GOVERNOR TO DO SO AND THE
GOVERNOR APPARENTLY AGREED WITH
THAT REQUEST, THAT IT'S TIME TO
ADDRESS THIS BECAUSE OTHERWISE
RAY IT GETS WORSE.
>>Suarez: IN RECENT MONTHS WERE
NEGOTIATIONS POSSIBLE TO
RESTRUCTURE DEBT, REACH
AGREEMENT WITH CROSS AVOIDING
BANKRUPTCY?
>> WE HAVE REACHED SOME
AGREEMENTS WITH CREDITORS, THOSE
ARE ONGOING IN FACT AND WE HOPE
TO REACH ADDITIONAL AGREEMENTS
WITH OTHER CREDITORS AND
STAKEHOLDERS IF THIS PROCESS.
THERE HAS TO BE A SOLUTION TO
WHERE WE ARE EITHER CONSENTIALY
OR OTHERWISE.
>>Suarez: GOVERNOR BACK TO YOU.
THIS IS NOT OVER FOR MICHIGAN IS
IT?
>> THE RAILWAY I SEE IT IS
DETROIT IS CRITICALLY IMPORTANT
FOR THE COME BACK OF THE STATE.
WE NEED TO TRADE ON THE PATH OF
BEING A GREAT CITY AGAIN AND
THIS IS A VERY IMPORTANT STEP IN
MAKING THAT HAPPEN.
TO STEP BACK FROM SIMPLY THE
FINANCIAL PIECES OF THIS,
TREMENDOUSLY GOOD THINGS ARE
GOING ON IN DETROIT TODAY.
IN TERMS OF THE BUSINESS
COMMUNITY, IN TERMS OF JOBS
BEING CREATED, DOWNTOWN AND
MIDTOWN DETROIT IN TERMS OF
YOUNG PEOPLE MOVING INTO THE
CITY, THERE'S 90%-PLUS OCCUPANCY
IN THE CITY.
WE NEED TO LOOK AT IMPROVEMENTS
IN THE NEIGHBORHOODS.
GOOD THINGS ARE GOING ON THERE.
THIS IS ABOUT SOLVING THE CITY
GOVERNMENT'S FINANCIAL AND
SERVICE ISSUES AND THAT'S THE
LAST OBSTACLE TO GO AND BEYOND
THAT WHEN WE GET THIS RESOLVED I
THINK DETROIT IS GOING TO BE
POSED FOR OUTSTANDING GROWTH AND
A BRIGHT FUTURE WHICH IS GREAT
FOR ALL OF MICHIGAN.
>>Suarez: YOU'VE GOT OTHER
DISTRESSED CITIES IN YOUR STATE
AND THERE ARE OTHER DISTRESSED
CITIES AROUND THE COUNTRY.
ARE THEY WATCHING THE MASSIVE
BANKRUPTCY CLOSELY AND MIGHT IT
GET HEART HARDER FOR CITIES TO
BORROW AND WILL IT DRIVE UP THE
COST OF BORROWING?
>> THERE ARE DISCUSSIONS ON BOTH
SIDES OF THAT ARGUMENT.
BUT I WAS HIRED BY THE CITIZENS
OF MICHIGAN INCLUDING THE
700,000 WONDERFUL PEOPLE IN
DETROIT TO GET AN ANSWER FOR
THEM.
THIS CD DOWN THE
STREET FOR YEARS AND YEARS,
ENOUGH IS ENOUGH.
THIS IS THE WAY TO DO IT.
THIS IS THE WAY TO ADDRESS THE
DEBT QUESTION.
THIS IS THE WAY TO HAVE DETROIT
GROW, AND THIS IS A DECISION
THAT IS, ISN'T IT TIME FOR ONE
OF OUR GREAT CITIES BECOME GREAT
AGAIN?
>>Suarez: WHAT WILL THIS MEAN
FOR DETROITERS?
WILL THERE BE SERVICES THAT WILL
HAVE TO GO AWAY, OR ARE THERE
ISSUES THAT PEOPLE CAN NO LONGER
AFFORD?
>> RAY, SERVICES WILL GET
BETTER.
WE'RE ALREADY FOCUSING ON
LIGHTING, BLIGHT, POLICE
SERVICES, HEALTH, SAFETY AND
WELFARE CONCERNS AND FRANKLY
BRINGING UP THE LEVEL OF
SERVICES FOR THE 700,000
RESIDENTS OF THE CITY OF
DETROIT, TO THE LEVEL THAT
SHOULD BELIE A GREAT AND STORIED
CITY.
THERE IS SO MUCH DEFERRED
MAINTENANCE, IT'S TIME TO GET AT
IT RAY AND MAKE IT BETTER FOR
ALL THE CITIZENS.
>>Suarez: CAN YOU DO THAT
WITHOUT SELLING OFF THE FAMILY
SILVER, THE ISLAND, THE PARKS,
THE ART COLLECTION?
>> SURELY, THE WEDDING CHINA AND
THE GRANDMA'S SILVER.
I THINK WE CAN FIX THIS PROPOSAL
THAT WE MADE ON JUNE 14th.
IT ADDRESSES THE LEGACY COSTS,
LONG TERM INITIATIVES OVER THE
NEXT TEN YEARS, AND THAT
PROPOSAL WAS MADE WITHOUT THE
NECESSITY OF LOOKING INTO SOME
OF THE ASSETS OF THE CITY IF YOU
WILL THAT SHOULD REMAIN FOR WHEN
THIS CITY IS THE GREAT CITY IT
IS, AND IT WILL BE EVEN BETTER
IN THE YEARS TO COME.
>>Suare KEVz:YN ORR, RICK
SNYDER, GENTLEMEN, THANK YOU.
>> Brown: AND THAT BRINGS US TO
THE ANALYSIS OF SHIELDS AND
BROOKS: SYNDICATED COLUMNIST
MARK SHIELDS AND "NEW YORK
TIMES" COLUMNIST DAVID BROOKS.
DAVID, START WITH THE
PRESIDENT'S SPEECH, WHAT DID YOU
THINK?
>> I THINK IT WAS JUST GREAT.
IT WAS WHAT THE PRESIDENT WAS
ELECTED TO BE IN 2008.
IT WAS THE GUY WHO SEEING A LOT
OF CONFLICT IN THE COUNTRY, A
LOT OF DIFFERENT POINTS OF VIEW
AND IS ABLE TO CORRAL THEM ALL
SO HE EXPLAINED THE CONTEXT, THE
WAY A LOT OF AFRICAN AMERICANS
ARE RESPONDING TO IT, HE
EXPLAINED REALISM, WHITE
AMERICANS REACTING TO IT, HE
BROUGHT IT TOGETHER IN ONE
UNIFIED PACKAGE, AND HE WAS
RESTRAINED, RESPONSIBLE, HE
POINTED SOME WAY DOWN THE ROAD
AND SO I THOUGHT IT WAS
UNIFYING.
AND WHEN WE THINK ABOUT OBAMA AT
HIS BEST I THINK THIS IS THE
SORT OF THING WE THINK ABOUT.
SO I JUST THOUGHT IT WAS GREAT.
>>Brown: MARK.
THE PRESIDENT HAS BEEN
CRITICIZED AND NOT TOTALLY
UNFAIRLY FOR BEING EMOTIONALLY
INACCESSIBLE, FOR BEING TOO BUT
ONED DOWN.
THIS -- BUTTONED DOWN.
I THOUGHT THIS WAS COMPLETELY
PERSONAL AND ENTIRELY
PDE
HE DID ACKNOWLEDGE AND ADDRESS
THE RESPONSE OF THE AMERICAN
COMMUNITY, IN THE AFRICAN
AMERICAN COMMUNITY THAN THE
COUNTRY AT LARGE AND HE
EXPLAINED THAT FROM HIS PERSONAL
EXPERIENCE I MEAN BEING FOLLOWED
AT A DEPARTMENT STORE, WATCHING
A WOMAN CLUTCH HER PURSE AS HE
GOT ON AN ELEVATOR.
THAT THE PERSONAL REALLY WORKED
IN PLAING THAT.
BUT AT THE SAME TIME, HE -- IN
EXPLAINING THAT.
BUT AT THE SAME TIME, HE DIDN'T
PAPER OVER WHAT THE PROBLEMS
WERE.
AND THE WAY HE ADDRESSED THE
QUESTION OF STAND YOUR GROUND, I
THOUGHT HE MADE THE CASE TO ME
PERSUASIVELY AGAINST THAT, AND
HOW IT DOES RAISE THE RISK OF
CONFRONTATION.
AND PARTICULARLY, WHEN HE GAVE
THE EXAMPLE OF WHAT IF AN ADULT
TRAYVON MARTIN H BEADENPACK ING
HEAT OR CARRIED --
>> I JUST WANT TO UNDERLINE
THAT.
IT'S SOMETHING YOU RARELY HAVE
YOUR MIND CHANGED IN A SECOND.
BUT I WAS SORT OF AMBIVALENT
ABOUT STAND YOUR GROUND,
STRENGTH AND INDEPENDENCE BUT
WHEN I HEARD THAT COUPLE OF
SENTENCES, I THOUGHT OH YEAH,
THAT IS A GOOD POINT.
SO YOU REALLY AT LEAST MYSELF,
MY MIND TURN A LITTLE ON THAT
ISSUE.
ANOTHER ELEMENT I SHOULD BRING
IN THERE BECAUSE THERE WAS A
COMPLEX LITTLE SYMPHONY THERE, A
BIT OF INDIGNATION.
SUPPOSE TRAYVON MARTIN HAD BEEN
THE WHITE KID AND ZIMMERMAN HAD
BEEN THE BLACK GUY HOW WOULD
THEY HAVE REACTED?
THERE WAS A HINT OF INDIGNATION
AND A HINT OF THE LAW PROFESSOR,
ALL THE OBAMA PIECES WERE WEAVED
IN THERE.
>>Brown: ARE YOU SURPRISED HE
CAME OUT A WEEK AFTER THE
VERDICT AND WHY DID HE DO IT?
>> HE WAS GOING TO DO IT AND
HAVE TO KNOW, THE PEOPLE ARE
GOING TO -- ALMOST HEAR HIM
SAYING WHAT'S THE POINT OF BEING
PRESIDENT IF YOU CAN'T DO THIS?
>>Brown: PEOPLE SAYING DON'T,
POLITICALLY?
>> LISTEN, WE'RE WORKING ON
IMMIGRATION, YOU COULD HEAR THE
VOICES OF CAUTION.
I DIDN'T HEAR THEM BUT I CAN
IMAGINE QUITE FRANKLY WHAT THEY
WERE.
THIS IS WHAT IS THE BEST FORUM,
HE DID IT WITHOUT A
TELEPROMPTER.
THAT TELLS YOU HOW DEEP AND
PERSONAL AND HOW MUCH HE HAD
THOUGHT ABOUT THIS AND HOW MUCH
HE HAD EXPRESSED BOTH HIS
THOUGHTS AND CONVICTIONS AND HIS
PASSION.
BUT NO, I WAS -- THE
WAS THAT, THEY HAD BEEN WAITING
FOR HIM TO BE ASKED ABOUT IT.
BUT I THOUGHT THIS WAS A FAR
MORE PERSUASIVE VENUE.
>> I HAD A CHANCE TO DO A LITTLE
REPORTING ON THIS AND IT WAS A
SOLO DECISION.
IT WAS MADE -- INSTINCTIVE
DECISION, MAYBE HE SHOULD HAVE
MADE A LITTLE MORE INTUITIVE
DECISIONS.
I FEEL LIKE DOING THIS, I'M
GOING TO DO IT.
EVEN TO THE POINT THEY DIDN'T
TELL THE PRESS CORPS, HE WAS
COMING OUT HERE WOW, THE GUY IS
IN THE ROOM HERE.
IT WAS A SIMPLE PERSONAL
DECISION.
>>Brown: WITHOUT POLITICAL
CALCULATION?
>> THAT'S WHAT I'VE BEEN TOLD
AND UNDERSTAND.
>>Brown: WHAT ABOUT POLITICAL
CONSEQUENCES OR CONTINUING
DISCUSSION OF THE KIND THAT HE
TALKED ABOUT?
>> I DON'T KNOW IF YOU CAN
CALCULATE THAT.
I MEAN I THINK THE REACTION, THE
PEOPLE WHO SEE THAT IS INDEED
PERSONAL.
I REALLY DO.
AND I GUESS, IF -- I DON'T KNOW,
WHERE YOU CAN CRITICIZE THE
PRESIDENT ON THIS.
SOMEONE WHO HAS BEEN ACCUSED OF
BEING HYPERCRITICAL ABOUT THE
PRESIDENT ON OCCASION, I DON'T
THINK THERE WAS -- THERE WASN'T
A FALSE NOTE IN THE WHOLE
PRESENTATION.
MAYBE HE SHOULDN'T BE -- HE'S
NEVER BEEN THE ANGRY OR
EMOTIONAL BLACK MAN.
I MEAN YOU KNOW THAT HAS BEEN
PART OF HIS ENTIRE MODUS
OPERANDI ALL THE WAY THROUGH.
YOU THOUGHT HE WOULD HAVE
EXPLODED, THE CONTROL -- THIS
WAS SO, TO ME, I.T. WAS
AUTHENTIC.
IT WAS AUTHENTIC OBAMA.
AND I THINK IT REMINDED A LOT OF
PEOPLE OF THE '07-'08 WHEN HE
DID CAPTIVATE THE IMAGINATION AS
WELL AS THE AFFECTION OF SO MANY
PEOPLE, PERHAPS THAT ARDOR HAS
COOLED IN SOME PRECINCTS SINCE.
>>Brown: I WAS CURIOUS WHAT YOU
THINK ABOUT THIS NATIONAL
CONVERSATION VERSUS THE WAY HE
PUT IT BECAUSE WE HAVE TRAUMAS
EVERY SO OFTEN IN THIS COUNTRY
AND THEN WETALK  ABOUT HAVING A
NATIONAL CONVERSATION.
HE SAID I'M NOT SURE THAT'S THE
WAY BUT WE NEED TO HAVE SOME
KIND OF CONVERSATION.
>> I'M WITH JONATHAN TURLEY
EARLIER ON IN THE PROGRAM.
PEOPLE AREN'T PERSUADED WITH
THIS, IT'S NEIGHBOR TO NEIGHBOR,
IT'S JUST INTERACTION, IT'S
INTERACTION OF PEOPLE OF
DIFFERENT RACES, IT'S THE NORMAL
FRIENDSHIPS THAT HAPPEN.
THAT'S HOW CHANGE HAPPENS.
YOU CAN'T TALK YOURSELF INTO
BEING A LESS RACIST PERSON.
BEING A BETTER PERSON.
YOU CAN'T TALK YOURSELF INTO
IT COMES FROM DIRECT ACTION AND
BEING A BETTER PERSON.
DIRECT CONDUCT.
IT COMES FROM DIRECT ACTION AND
I THINK HIS REACTIONS ARE RIGHT.
DIRECT CONDUCT.
>>Brown: THE BIG STORY OF THE
I THINK HIS REACTIONS ARE RIGHT.
DAY THE DETROIT BANKRUPTCY.
>>Brown: THE BIG STORY OF THE
YOUR REACTION TO THAT?
DAY THE DETROIT BANKRUPTCY.
>> DROIT IS A GREAT AMERICAN
YOUR REACTION TO THAT?
STORY.
>> DROIT IS A GREAT AMERICAN
AND I DON'T KNOW IF IT'S THE
STORY.
POSTSCRIPT TO OR THE PREVIEW OF
AND I DON'T KNOW IF IT'S THE
THE INDUSTRIALIZATION OF THE
POSTSCRIPT TO OR THE PREVIEW OF
GRADE REPLIED WEST UNITED
THE INDUSTRIALIZATION OF THE
STATES.
GRADE REPLIED WEST UNITED
I MEAN DETROIT IS NOT ALONE AS
STATES.
ONE GOES ACROSS COVERING
I MEAN DETROIT IS NOT ALONE AS
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS ON
ONE GOES ACROSS COVERING
CONGRESSIONAL ELECTIONS IN THESE
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS ON
GREAT STATES, AND I JUST
CONGRESSIONAL ELECTIONS IN THESE
THINK -- I JUST WANT TO THINK
GREAT STATES, AND I JUST
ABOUT DETROIT IN THIS SENSE.
THINK -- I JUST WANT TO THINK
WE WON WORLD WAR II.
ABOUT DETROIT IN THIS SENSE.
WE WERE THE ARSENAL OF
WE WON WORLD WAR II.
DEMOCRACY.
WE WERE THE ARSENAL OF
DETROIT WAS THE ARSENAL OF THE
DEMOCRACY.
UNITED STATES.
DETROIT WAS THE ARSENAL OF THE
AND MICHIGAN REALLY, 75% OF ALL
UNITED STATES.
THE AIRCRAFT ENGINES THAT WERE
AND MICHIGAN REALLY, 75% OF ALL
BUILT FOR THE ALLIES IN WORLD
THE AIRCRAFT ENGINES THAT WERE
WAR II WERE BUILD WITHIN
BUILT FOR THE ALLIES IN WORLD
DETROIT, AND ITS ENVIRONS.
WAR II WERE BUILD WITHIN
EVERY, EVERY TRUCK THAT BROUGHT
DETROIT, AND ITS ENVIRONS.
TROOPS AND SUPPLIES TO DEFEAT
EVERY, EVERY TRUCK THAT BROUGHT
NAZI GERMANY, IT'S A REMARKABLE
TROOPS AND SUPPLIES TO DEFEAT
STORY.
NAZI GERMANY, IT'S A REMARKABLE
AND THE MIDDLE AMERICAN WORKING
STORY.
CLASS FAMILY, AMERICAN SUCCESS
AND THE MIDDLE AMERICAN WORKING
STORY, CAME FROM THAT DETROIT,
CLASS FAMILY, AMERICAN SUCCESS
AND MICHIGAN.
STORY, CAME FROM THAT DETROIT,
SO I MEAN, I THINK IT'S A TRAGIC
AND MICHIGAN.
REALITY, IT'S, ALL OF IT A
SO I MEAN, I THINK IT'S A TRAGIC
TERRIBLE ECONOMIC REALITY BUT
REALITY, IT'S, ALL OF IT A
IT'S NOT UNIQUE.
TERRIBLE ECONOMIC REALITY BUT
IT'S NOT UNIQUE IN THE SENSE
IT'S NOT UNIQUE.
IT'S A TERRIBLE CRISIS BUT IT'S
IT'S NOT UNIQUE IN THE SENSE
NOT UNIQUE AMONG AMERICAN
IT'S A TERRIBLE CRISIS BUT IT'S
CITIES.
NOT UNIQUE AMONG AMERICAN
>>Brown: DO YOU PUT IT IN SUCH
CITIES.
LARGE TERMS?
>>Brown: DO YOU PUT IT IN SUCH
>> IT IS AN URBAN TRAGEDY THAT'S
LARGE TERMS?
GONE ON FOR 60 YEARS, ALMOST
>> IT IS AN URBAN TRAGEDY THAT'S
EVERY FACET.
GONE ON FOR 60 YEARS, ALMOST
THE PRODUCTION THAT MARK TALKS
EVERY FACET.
ABOUT IS THE BEGINNING OF THE
THE PRODUCTION THAT MARK TALKS
END.
ABOUT IS THE BEGINNING OF THE
WHAT IS DIVERSITY, DIVERSE
END.
ECONOMIC SECTORS THAT ARE
WHAT IS DIVERSITY, DIVERSE
FEEDING OFF OF EACH OTHER.
ECONOMIC SECTORS THAT ARE
DETROIT DIDN'T HAVE THAT.
FEEDING OFF OF EACH OTHER.
DETROIT HAD NOTHING ELSE TO FEED
DETROIT DIDN'T HAVE THAT.
OFF OF SO YOU HAD A LACK OF
DETROIT HAD NOTHING ELSE TO FEED
ECONOMIC DIVERSITY, A LACK OF
OFF OF SO YOU HAD A LACK OF
CREATIVITY.
ECONOMIC DIVERSITY, A LACK OF
YOU LOOK AT SOME OF THE OTHER
CREATIVITY.
MID WESTERN CITIES THAT HAVE
YOU LOOK AT SOME OF THE OTHER
DONE BETTER, THE TWIN CITIES,
MID WESTERN CITIES THAT HAVE
MINNEAPOLIS, ST. PAUL, THEY
DONE BETTER, THE TWIN CITIES,
IMMEDIATELY DETERMINED EDUCATION
MINNEAPOLIS, ST. PAUL, THEY
WAS GOING TO BE THE KEY, THEY
IMMEDIATELY DETERMINED EDUCATION
HAVE MORE EDUCATIONAL
WAS GOING TO BE THE KEY, THEY
INSTITUTIONS.
HAVE MORE EDUCATIONAL
IT WAS AN URBAN TRAGEDY DETROIT
INSTITUTIONS.
IN THAT ZONE.
IT WAS AN URBAN TRAGEDY DETROIT
THEN THERE WERE ATTEMPTS AT
IN THAT ZONE.
REVIVAL, FANCY DOWNTOWN
THEN THERE WERE ATTEMPTS AT
BUILDINGS.
REVIVAL, FANCY DOWNTOWN
THAT'S NOT WHAT YOU DO, YOU GIVE
BUILDINGS.
FAMILIES THE REASON TO BUILD
THAT'S NOT WHAT YOU DO, YOU GIVE
THERE AND STAY THERE.
FAMILIES THE REASON TO BUILD
THE CRIME, THE CORRUPTION,
THERE AND STAY THERE.
FINALLY YOU CAN'T GIVE
THE CRIME, THE CORRUPTION,
50-YEAR-OLD CITY EMPLOYEES A
FINALLY YOU CAN'T GIVE
PENSION AND EXPECT TO SURVIVE
50-YEAR-OLD CITY EMPLOYEES A
WITH THOSE KIND OF PROMISES.
PENSION AND EXPECT TO SURVIVE
IT'S JUST ONE LAYER AFTER
WITH THOSE KIND OF PROMISES.
ANOTHER, I HOPE THEY CAN TURN IT
IT'S JUST ONE LAYER AFTER
AROUND BUT IT HAS BEEN A LONG
ANOTHER, I HOPE THEY CAN TURN IT
TIME COMING.
AROUND BUT IT HAS BEEN A LONG
>>Brown: DOES IT PLAY INTO SOME
TIME COMING.
KIND OF NATIONAL POLITICS
>>Brown: DOES IT PLAY INTO SOME
NARRATIVE OR NARRATIVE THAT YOU
KIND OF NATIONAL POLITICS
SEE?
NARRATIVE OR NARRATIVE THAT YOU
>> WE CAN'T BE A GREAT COUNTRY
SEE?
WITHOUT GREAT CITIES.
>> WE CAN'T BE A GREAT COUNTRY
I DON'T KNOW HOW A CITY GOES
WITHOUT GREAT CITIES.
INTO BANKRUPTCY.
I DON'T KNOW HOW A CITY GOES
700,000 PEOPLE.
INTO BANKRUPTCY.
IF IT'S A COMPANY OR
700,000 PEOPLE.
CORPORATION, CAN YOU CLOSE IT
IF IT'S A COMPANY OR
DOWN, LOCK IT, TURN OUT THE
CORPORATION, CAN YOU CLOSE IT
LIGHTS?
DOWN, LOCK IT, TURN OUT THE
YOU CAN'T DO THAT WHEN YOU HAVE
LIGHTS?
700,000 PEOPLE WITH KIDS BEING
YOU CAN'T DO THAT WHEN YOU HAVE
RAISED AND FAMILIES.
700,000 PEOPLE WITH KIDS BEING
WE HEARD GOVERNOR DISMIE DER WE
RAISED AND FAMILIES.
HEARD MR. ORR TALK ABOUT A
WE HEARD GOVERNOR DISMIE DER WE
58-MINUTE RESPONSE TIME FOR A
HEARD MR. ORR TALK ABOUT A
911 CALL.
58-MINUTE RESPONSE TIME FOR A
THIS IS UNACCEPTABLE.
911 CALL.
I MEAN, SO I -- I HOPE IT CAN
THIS IS UNACCEPTABLE.
BE -- I HOPE WE DON'T JUST
I MEAN, SO I -- I HOPE IT CAN
REGARD THIS AS SOME SORT OF
BE -- I HOPE WE DON'T JUST
MORALITY PLAY OR THESE STURDY
REGARD THIS AS SOME SORT OF
POLITICIANS DID THIS.
MORALITY PLAY OR THESE STURDY
IT IS SOMETHING SIGNIFICANT AND
POLITICIANS DID THIS.
IT'S SOMETHING THAT IT IS NOT
IT IS SOMETHING SIGNIFICANT AND
UNIQUE.
IT'S SOMETHING THAT IT IS NOT
IT IS A TERRIBLE CRISIS AND IT'S
UNIQUE.
A HUMAN TRAGEDY BUT IT IS NOT A
IT IS A TERRIBLE CRISIS AND IT'S
UNIQUE AMERICAN EXPERIENCE.
A HUMAN TRAGEDY BUT IT IS NOT A
>>Brown: ALTHOUGH THERE ARE SOME
UNIQUE AMERICAN EXPERIENCE.
PLMENTS OF MIS-- ELEMENTS OF
>>Brown: ALTHOUGH THERE ARE SOME
MISMANAGEMENT WE'VE HEARD IN
PLMENTS OF MIS-- ELEMENTS OF
THIS STORY UNFOLDING IN THE
MISMANAGEMENT WE'VE HEARD IN
YEARS.
THIS STORY UNFOLDING IN THE
>> AND THE OTHER THING THAT IS
YEARS.
COMMON IS THE OVERPROMISING OF
>> AND THE OTHER THING THAT IS
PENSIONS, WHETHER IT'S ILLINOIS
COMMON IS THE OVERPROMISING OF
CHICAGO CALIFORNIA --
PENSIONS, WHETHER IT'S ILLINOIS
>> THE RATINGS YESTERDAY WENT
CHICAGO CALIFORNIA --
DOWN AND SO YOU KNOW IT IS A
>> THE RATINGS YESTERDAY WENT
PROBLEM.
DOWN AND SO YOU KNOW IT IS A
>> THERE IS A POSSIBILITY FOR
PROBLEM.
REBOUND.
>> THERE IS A POSSIBILITY FOR
YOU KNOW YOU NEVER COUNT OUT
REBOUND.
HUMAN BEINGS AND DETROIT HAS
YOU KNOW YOU NEVER COUNT OUT
SOME ADVANTAGES.
HUMAN BEINGS AND DETROIT HAS
IT'S GOT REALLY CHEAP REAL
SOME ADVANTAGES.
ESTATE.
IT'S GOT REALLY CHEAP REAL
AND A WRKFOORCE.
ESTATE.
PEOPLE WHO KNOW HOW TO WORK.
AND A WRKFOORCE.
HISTORY OF THAT.
PEOPLE WHO KNOW HOW TO WORK.
IT'S GOT SUBURBS, SOME STRENGTH
HISTORY OF THAT.
AND CREATIVITY.
IT'S GOT SUBURBS, SOME STRENGTH
AND SO OFTEN, IN CAPITALISM,
AND CREATIVITY.
WHEN YOU HIRT BOTTOM YOU HAVE
AND SO OFTEN, IN CAPITALISM,
SOME PERVERSE ADVANTAGES, LOW
WHEN YOU HIRT BOTTOM YOU HAVE
COST, PEOPLE DESIRING TO DO A
SOME PERVERSE ADVANTAGES, LOW
TURN AROUND, WHATEVER IT TASTE.
COST, PEOPLE DESIRING TO DO A
SO THERE'S AN EBB AND FLOW OF
TURN AROUND, WHATEVER IT TASTE.
THINGS.
SO THERE'S AN EBB AND FLOW OF
>>Brown: LET'S HOPE ON HOPE.
THINGS.
RED SOX AND YANKEES.
>>Brown: LET'S HOPE ON HOPE.
I DON'T WEAR A METS TIE.
RED SOX AND YANKEES.
THAT WOULD BE BRAGGING.
I DON'T WEAR A METS TIE.
>>Brown: MARK AND DAVID THANKS
THAT WOULD BE BRAGGING.
VERY MUCH.
>>Brown: MARK AND DAVID THANKS
>> Suarez: ANOTHER LOOK AT
VERY MUCH.
POLITICS NOW, IN VIRGINIA, WHERE
>> Suarez: ANOTHER LOOK AT
THE STATE'S RACE FOR GOVERNOR IS
POLITICS NOW, IN VIRGINIA, WHERE
STARTING TO HEAT UP.
THE STATE'S RACE FOR GOVERNOR IS
THE GOVERNOR'S RACE IN VIRGINIA
STARTING TO HEAT UP.
THIS FALL IS BEING CLOSELY
THE GOVERNOR'S RACE IN VIRGINIA
WATCHED FOR WHAT IT SAYS ABOUT
THIS FALL IS BEING CLOSELY
THE NATION'S SHIFTING POLITICAL
WATCHED FOR WHAT IT SAYS ABOUT
LANDSCAPE.
THE NATION'S SHIFTING POLITICAL
FOR DECADES, THE OLD DOMINION
LANDSCAPE.
WAS SOLIDLY REPUBLICAN, BUT
FOR DECADES, THE OLD DOMINION
BARACK OBAMA CARRIED IT IN 2008
WAS SOLIDLY REPUBLICAN, BUT
AND AGAIN LAST YEAR.
ONE YEAR LATER, THE GOVERNOR'S
RACE IS CLOSE.
ON THE DEMOCRATIC SIDE, TERRY
McAULIFFE, FORMER CHAIR OF THE
DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE.
HE HELPED RUN PRESIDENT
CLINTON'S RE-ELECTION EFFORT IN
1996 AND HILLARY CLINTON'S
UNSUCCESSFUL PRESIDENTIAL RUN IN
2008.
McAULIFFE FIRST RAN FOR GOVERNOR
IN 2009, BUT LOST THE DEMOCRATIC
PRIMARY.
NOW, HE FACES REPUBLICAN STATE
ATTORNEY GENERAL KEN CUCCINELLI.
THE CONSERVATIVE FAVORITE HAS
LED THE PUSH FOR NEW REGULATIONS
ON ABORTION CLINIC, AND FILED A
FEDERAL LAWSUIT AGAINST
PRESIDENT OBAMA'S HEALTH CARE
LAW.
HIS CAMPAIGN FOR GOVERNOR HAS
BEEN DOGGED BY THE TROUBLE
SWIRLING AROUND THE CURRENT
GOVERNOR-- REPUBLICAN BOB
McDONNELL.
HE'S UNDER STATE AND FEDERAL
INVESTIGATION FOR FAILING TO
DISCLOSE MORE THAN $145,000 IN
GIFTS FROM A CAMPAIGN DONOR.
CUCCINELLI AND McAULIFFE FACE
OFF TOMORROW IN THEIR FIRST
DEBATE IN HOT SPRINGS, VIRGINIA.
>> FOR MORE ON THE STATE OF PLAY
IN THE GOVERNOR'S RACE WE'RE
JOINED BY TWO REPORTERS, BEN
PERSHING OF THE WASHINGTON POST
AND JULIAN WALKER OF THE
VIRGINIAN PILOT.
GENTLEMEN THANK YOU BOTH FOR
JOINING US.
JULIAN THIS IS A MUCH COVETED
SEAT BY BOTH REPUBLICANS AND
DEMOCRATS.
WHAT IS THE STATE OF PLAY RIGHT
NOW?
>> RIGHT NOW IT IS VERY TIGHT,
TWO POLLS THIS WEEK BOTH HAVE
THE GOVERNOR UP BY TWO POINTS,
THE OTHER HAS KEN CUCCINELLI UP
BY SIX POINTS.
BOTH CAMPAIGNS WOULD QUON SEED
THAT THEY SEE THIS AS A PRETTY
TIGHT RACE.
IT IS ONE THAT IS GOING TO BE
EXPENSIVE.
IT IS ONE THAT HAS DEMONSTRATED
SO FAR IS PRETTY NASTY AND I
THINK WE'LL SEE A LOT MORE OF
THAT TO COME IN ROUGHLY FOUR
MONTHS BEFORE ELECTION DAY.
>>Suarez: BEN, DO YOU AGREE, THE
REPUBLICANS ARE SPENDING TIME
AND MONEY RUNNING THEMSELVES
DOWN INSTEAD OF MAKING A
POSITIVE RUN OF THEMSELVES?
>> I THINK THE STATE PARTY
APPARATUS ON BOTH SIDES, TRYING
TO CONVINCE THE VOTERS THAT THE
OTHER PARTY IS UNACCEPTABLE, NOT
WORTHY OF VOTING FOR.
I THINK THE CANDIDATES HAVE A
WAY TO GO CONVINCING THE VOTER
THAT THEY ARE WORTHY RATHER THAN
THE OTHER ONE SHOULDN'T BE.
>>Suarez: OFF YEAR ELECTION
BECAUSE OF THE WAY THE CYCLES
LINE UP, DOES THAT GIVE AN
ADVANTAGE TO CUCCINELLI EVEN
THOUGH PRESIDENT OBAMA WON IN
VIRGINIA LAST YEAR?
>> THAT HAS BEEN LONG STANDING,
THE YEAR AFTER PRESIDENTIAL
ELECTION, THE PARTY THAT WINS
THE WAREHOUSE IS THE OPPOSITE
PARTY.
BY THAT TREND ALONE, YOU WOULD
THINK KEN CUCCINELLI HAS AN
ADVANTAGE.
THE ELECTORATE TENDS TO BE IN
OFF YEAR ELECTIONS IN VIRGINIA
MORE OF AN OLDER MORE
CONSERVATIVE MORE LEANING
ELECTORATE.
THE REPUBLICANS FOUND THAT THE
HARD WAY IN 2009.
THEY INSIST THAT THIS TIME THEY
HAVE THEIR TROOPS THEIR GROUND
FORCES MOTIVATED AND THEY WON'T
HAVE THE KIND OF DROPOFF BETWEEN
2008 AND 2009, FOR EXAMPLE WHEN
IN 2008 VIRGINIA VOTER
PARTICIPATION WAS 75%, IN 2009,
THE LAST TIME WE HAD A
GOVERNOR'S ELECTION HERE, IT WAS
ABOUT 40%.
>>Suarez: BEN, GOVERNOR
McDONNELL HAD ENJOYED PRETTY
HIGH APPROVAL RATINGS IN HIS
HOME STATE.
ARE HIS RECENT TROUBLES MAKING
IT MORE DIFFICULT FOR HIS
ATTORNEY GENERAL WHO IS TRYING
TO SUCCEED HIM?
>> THERE ARE TWO ANSWERS TO
THAT.
POLLS, SO FAR WE HAVEN'T HAD A
BIG HIT ON CUCCINELLI BECAUSEOF
McDONNELL'S TROUBLES.
I THINK CUCCINELLI'S OWN
ADVISORS WILL ADMIT, IT'S
DISTRACTING WHEN HE GETS ASKED
EACH DAY ABOUT BOK McDONNELL.
THEY WOULD RATHER BE TALKING
ABOUT THE ECONOMY, ABOUT JOBS,
ABOUT ANYTHING BUT THE SCANDAL
NOW.
>>Suarez: THERE ARE RECENT
CONNECTIONS JULIAN BETWEEN A
LARGE CONTRIBUTOR AND DONOR STAR
CANDIDATE FOR
GOVERNOR?
>> WELL THERE ARE A NUMBER OF
DEVELOPMENTS THAT HAVE BEEN
REPORTED ACROSS VIRGINIA.
DETAILING THE NUMEROUS GIFLTS
THAT BOTH THE GOVERNOR AND HIS
FAMILY AS WELL AS KEN CUCCINELLI
HAS RECEIVED FROM JOHNNY
WILLIAMS.
THE MOST RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
CAME OUT ON THURSDAY WHEN THE
RICHARD COMMONWEALTH TOARNT
RELEASED HIS REPORT INDICATING
HE DID NOT SEE ANY CRIMINAL
WRONGDOING OR VIOLATION OF THE
LAW BY THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR
HIS BELATED DISCLOSURE OF GIFTS
FROM JOHNNY WILLIAMS.
ALSO?
THE GOVERNOR'S OFFICE ON
THURSDAY RELEASED THE RESULTS OF
AN EXTERNAL AUDIT DONE BY A
PRIVATE ATTORNEY AND FORMER
ATTORNEY GENERAL WHO HAS BEEN
HIRED TO ASSIST THE GOVERNOR,
HAD RECEIVED ANY STATE BENEFITS
WHILE GOVERNOR McDONNELL'S
TERM HAD BEEN ONGOING.
>>Suarez: HAS TERRY McAULIFFE
BEEN RESTRAINED BECAUSE OF HIS
OWN BACKGROUND AS A BIG MONEY
MAN FOR BILL CLINTON AND SOME OF
THE QUESTIONS SWIRLING AROUND
HIM?
>> REPUBLICANS ALWAYS RESPOND TO
THIS BY NOTING McDONNELL HAD
HIS OWN PROBLEMS IN THE PAST.
ALSO, McAULIFFE HAS A EMBRACED
McDONNELL IN SOME AREAS.
HE SUPPORTED McDONNELL'S
TRANSPORTATION BILL IN VIRGINIA.
IN SOME WAYS HE EMBRACED
McDONNELL'S GOVERNING STYLE.
HE PREFERS TO HANG BACK AND SORT
OF LET OTHER PEOPLE DO THAT.
>>Suarez: JULIAN, THE CURRENT
UNITED STATES SENATORS FROM
VIRGINIA HAPPEN TO BE THE LAST
TWO DEMOCRATIC GOVERNORS OF THE
STATE, TIM KANE AND MARK WARNER,
ARE THEY OF VALUE TO THE
DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATE, TERRY
McAULIFFE?
>> CERTAINLY ANY TIME YOU HAVE A
HIGH RANKING OFFICIAL HOLDING
OFFICE, HAS ALREADY APPEARED AT
A KICKOFF REALLY THAT TERRY
McAULIFFE DID THIS SPRING.
THEY ALSO MAY HELP TERRY
McAULIFFE IN SO MUCH AS THEY
CAN PRESENT TERRY McAULIFFE AS
KIND OF HEIRS TO THEIR LEGACY.
SUCCESSFUL CANDIDATES FOR
GOVERNOR IN VIRGINIA HAVE BEEN
ABLE TO COURT SUCCESSFULLY THE
BUSINESS COMMUNITY, THE KIND OF
MAIN STREET CHAMBER OF COMMERCE
VOTE AND TYPICALLY IN RECENT
VIRGINIA GUBERNATORIAL ELECTIONS
YOU SEE THE CANDIDATE THAT IS
ABLE TO GET THOSE KIND OF
PROMINENT AND INFLUENTIAL
BUSINESS AND THOUGHT MAKERS ON
THEIR SIDE, THOSE TEND TO BE THE
SUCCESSFUL CANDIDATES.
SO IF THEY CAN HELP McAULIFFE
MAKE THAT CASE TO THAT BUSINESS
COMMUNITY, THAT COULD BE
HELPFUL.
>>Suarez: AND BEN, QUICKLY
BEFORE WE GO THIS ELECTION WILL
OCCUR LATER THIS YEAR.
IS IT CLOSELY WATCHED IN
NATIONAL POLITICS?
WILL IT SET THE TABLE IN 2014?
>> IT CERTAINLY WILL, BECAUSE
MANY PEOPLE SEE IT AS THE ONLY
GAME IN TOWN.
BOTH PARTIES ARE USING VIRGINIA
AS A PROVE BE GROUND FOR
STRATEGIES, FOR MESSAGES, SOME
OF THE STAFF IN THIS CASE YOU
PLAY SEE BOUNDING UP IN THE NEXT
PRESIDENTIAL CONTEST.
IF ONLY BECAUSE THERE'S A VACUUM
EVERYWHERE ELSE ALL EYES ARE
TURCHED ON VIRGINIA THIS YEAR.
>> BEN PERSHING, JULIAN WALKER,
THANK YOU BOTH.
>> Brown: FINALLY TONIGHT: THE
WAITING GAME IN LONDON FOR THE
ROYAL BABY-- A FIRST CHILD FOR
THE DUKE AND DUCHESS OF
CAMBRIDGE.
TIM EWART OF "INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS" HAS THE STORY.
>> Reporter: THIS IS SOUTH WOLFE
ROAD, LONDON W-2.
TAXI DRIVERS NOW HAVE ANOTHER
NAME FOR IT.
>> MADNESS STREET CRAZY STREET.
>> I'VE BEEN HERE NINE DAYS.
I FEEL AS IF I'M HAVING THE
BABY.
>> Reporter: NINE DAYS SOME
CAMERA CREWS HAVE BEEN HERE FOR
MORE THAN THREE WEEKS, TRAPPED
IN A WORLD OF GOSSIP,
SPECULATION AND RUMOR.
THE LATEST RUMOR: KATE WOULD
ARRIVE HERE AT THE PRIVATE LINDO
WING TO HAVE HER BABY TODAY.
THIS IS THE MOMENT EVERYONES'
WAITING FOR-- MOTHER AND CHILD
EMERGING AS DIANA DID WITH THE
BABY WILLIAM IN 1982.
AMONG THE ASSEMBLED
PHOTOGRAPHERS THEN ON THE LEFT
HERE WAS ARTHUR EDWARDS.
31 YEARS ON, HE'S BACK.
>> WELL I'VE HAD MY EYE SPOT
MARKED UP SINCE THE FIRST OF
JULY.
IT'S INCREDIBLE.
I MEAN NO OTHER BABY IN THE
WORLD.
I MEAN IF MICHELLE OBAMA WAS
EXPECTED A BABY WOULD WE BE
OUTSIDE?
NO, WE WOULDN'T.
>> Reporter: WE CARE OF COURSE,
IT'S MEDIA FRENZY BUT WHAT ABOUT
THE GENERAL PUBLIC?
ARE YOU ON TENTERHOOKS?
DEFINITELY NOT SAYS THE MAN FROM
THE MONARCHY GROUP, REPUBLIC.
ARE YOU BEING A BIT LIKE SORT OF
THE GRINCH WHO SPOILED
CHRISTMAS?
>> NO, NOT AT ALL, I'M ACTUALLY
REFLECTING IN ON THIS OCCASION,
I'M REFLECTING IN ON THE
MAJORITY I THINK.
BECAUSE MOST PEOPLE ARE GETTIN
ON WITH THEIR LIVES.
I MEAN, I DON'T SEE PEOPLE
TALKING ABOUT IT, I DON'T HEAR
PEOPLE TALKING ABOUT IT.
>> Reporter: KATE HASN'T BEEN
SEEN IN PUBLIC SINCE TROOTING
THE COLOR LAST MONTH.
THE ONLY SIGHTING AT THE LINDO
WING, A LOOK-A-LIKE IN A
NEWSPAPER STUNT.
THERE WAS NO REAL NEWS, AS
ANOTHER DAY WENT BY DOWN ON
CRAZY STREET.
>> Brown: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY:
PRESIDENT OBAMA SAID THE NATION
NEEDS TO DO SOME SOUL-SEARCHING
AFTER THE SHOOTING OF TRAYVON
MARTIN.
AND RUSSIAN OPPOSITION LEADER
ALEXEI NAVALNY WAS RELEASED FROM
JAIL, PENDING APPEAL, A DAY
AFTER BEING SENTENCED TO FIVE
YEARS IN JAIL FOR EMBEZZLEMENT.
>> AND THE COUNTY JUDGE IN
MICHIGAN ORDERED THE GOVERNOR TO
WITHDRAW DETROIT'S FEDERAL
BANKRUPTCY FILING.
STATE OFFICIALS SAID THEY'D
APPEAL THE ORDER.
>>Suarez: AND SOMETHING VERY
DIFFERENT ONLINE.
OUR EARTH AND MOON JOINED SATURN
FOR AN INTER PLAN TRI PHOTOOP.
>> Holman: NASA ASKED AMERICANS
TO LOOK UP AND WAVE TODAY.
THE CASSINI SPACECRAFT SNAPPED
THE PHOTO FROM THE OUTER SOLAR
SYSTEM A SHORT TIME AGO.
THE EARTH WILL APPEAR AS JUST A
DOT, AND IT COULD TAKE WEEKS TO
PROCESS THE IMAGES. FIND THAT
STORY ON OUR HOME PAGE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR
WEBSITE newshour.pbs.org.
RAY?
>>Suarez: AND THAT'S THE NEWS
HOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON MONDAY WE BEGIN A STORE ABOUT
STOPPING GUN VIOLENCE.
I'M RAY SUAREZ.
>>Brown: AND I'M JEFFREY BROWN.
NEW CHARLIE ROSE PROGRAM, THE
WEEK, APPEARS IN PRIME TIME.
HAVE A NICE WEEKEND, THANKS FOR
JOINING US, GOOD NIGHT.